# Equation-of-Invasion
Master's Thesis Project

Biological invasion is one of the main drivers of species extinctions. Therefore, measures are implemented to reduce the abundance of the invading species with the goal to mitigate its impact. These measures often lead to high labour and economic expenditures yet their effectiveness are often uncertain. To evaluate and thereby improve the mitigation of invasions, it is essential to understand the invasion process and the underlying mechanisms of the removal effort of the invading species. In this study, I use a trait and niche-based theoretical approach to study such processes and mechanisms. I simulate invasion into a residential community followed by simulated removal of the invading species. The invasion process reveals that the impact of the invading species is dependent on both the ecological characteristics including the niche width of the residential and the invading species, and the niche position of the invading species. More specifically, while a specialist invader is causing an increase in species richness by invading a generalist community, a generalist invading a specialist community causes an increase in species richness when invading at peripheral niche positions and a decrease in species richness when invading at central niche positions. Furthermore, the simulation of the removal effort against the invader shows a stepwise mitigation effect along an increasing removal effort. My results thus provide a fundamental view of the invasion process itself, the effect that ecologically different invaders may have when invading different types of communities, and how different degrees of human effort to remove invaders can mitigate negative effects on the invaded community. I am confident that such an understanding of the invasion and the removal process can act as a stepping-stone for future efforts that aim to increase the effectiveness of human measures against biological invasion. 
